movies in short here
today i'll summarize a 2014
psychological music drama movie called
whiplash
actor miles teller performed most of the
drumming in this movie himself
sit back relax and enjoy
andrew neyman is a drum student at
schaefer conservatory of music in new
york
he stops practicing when the studio band
leader terence fletcher walks through
the door towards him
andrew politely introduces himself
telling fletcher that he is a first-year
student
fletcher asks andrew why he stopped
playing when he is aware that fletcher
is looking for studio band players
andrew starts to play again briefly to
show his ability
fletcher sarcastically says that
andrew's response to this question is to
start playing again like a wind-up
monkey
he tells him to continue and leaves the
room
later andrew meets his father jim naaman
at the movies and tells him that his
meeting with fletcher wasn't great the
next day at class andrew meets the core
drummer ryan connolly
before he leaves andrew peers into
fletcher's class next door to watch the
studio band
andrew practices hoping to become one of
the world's greatest jazz drummers
taking inspiration from the legendary
buddy rich
fletcher walks into their band practice
and instructs ryan to play
he tells andrew and ryan to swap seats
and listens briefly to andrew
fletcher calls andrew telling him to be
in room b-16 the following morning at 6
a.m and not to be late
andrew takes his seat back at the drums
next to ryan and smiles to himself
he goes to meet nicole who works at the
cinema and asks her to go out with him
she agrees
the next morning andrew wakes up after
six and rushes to get dressed as he is
already late
when he arrives at the studio no one is
there
he checks the notice and sees that the
class only starts at 9 am
andrew sits at the drum kit and waits
for 3 hours the other musicians arrive
just before 9 am and unpack their
instruments
an arrogant carl tanner the core drummer
meets andrew and tells him to set the
drums and to turn his music pages for
him as he plays
fletcher arrives at exactly 9am
the musicians stand in silence waiting
for instruction
he walks to the podium and selects a
piece for them to play
fletcher introduces andrew to the studio
band as a squeaker as he is only 19
years old and says isn't he cute
the band starts to play whiplash and
tanner shouts page to andrew who has
forgotten to turn the sheet music for
tanner as he plays
fletcher orders the band to stop saying
he is really upset that there is an out
of tune player
he approaches a student named metz
saying tell me it's not you elmer fudd
a very nervous met starts to play again
fletcher stares at him and asks if he
thinks he is out of tune
when metz looks down at the floor
fletcher says there's no mars bar down
there so what are you looking at
he orders mets to look at him
a tearful embarrassed metz confesses
that he was playing out of tune
fletcher explodes with rage asking him
why he didn't just say so
he tells mets that he has carried him
for long enough and that mets will not
lose them the competition because his
mind is elsewhere instead of on pitch
fletcher continues to insult and
intimidate him and tells him to get out
of the class
fletcher tells the class that metz
wasn't actually out of tune eriksen was
but the fact that mets didn't know was
bad enough
during a break fletcher speaks to andrew
and asks him about his family
andrew says his father is a writer but
teaches in high school
andrew's mother left home when he was a
baby so he doesn't know what she does
he says that he is not from a family of
musicians
fletcher tells him he needs to listen to
the great drummers like buddy rich and
gil jones
andrew returns to class feeling more
confident and relaxed as he takes his
place as core drummer with tanner as
alternate drummer
fletcher conducts as the band plays
whiplash
fletcher stops andrew repeatedly
becoming increasingly angry as he paces
around the room telling him to start
over as andrew fails to keep tempo
andrew ducks just in time as fletcher
turns and throws a chair at him
fletcher approaches andrew very
aggressively shouting at andrew to look
at him and to count to tempo and four
fletcher slaps andrew's face at each
count while repeatedly asking him if he
is playing out of tempo too quickly or
too slowly
when andrew eventually replies that he
is playing too quickly fletcher
continues his relentless tirade
threatening him and telling him not to
sabotage his band
he shows andrew the music sheet asking
him if he can read tempo or even music
and makes more disparaging remarks
an emotionally exhausted andrew chokes
back his tears
a single tear runs down his cheek as
fletcher continues to reprimand him
fletcher demands that andrew shout out
upset loudly so that the band can hear
him in order to degrade him further in
front of his peers
he belittles andrew's family using the
information andrew had told him earlier
tanner moves back to his place as core
drummer with andrew beside him and the
band starts to play whiplash again
later an exhausted and demoralized
andrew sits alone in his room
he makes the decision to continue
printing copies of the sheet music
before he starts to practice again
andrew practices for hours until his
hands bleed and the blood drips onto the
drums nicole meets him later for pizza
and they share stories of their lives
the studio band tunes their instruments
preparing for the over burke jazz
competition
fletcher continues to be verbally
abusive as he gives the musicians last
minute instructions before they go on
stage
the band are introduced as they assemble
in front of the judges and fletcher
joins them
fletcher seems to approve of their
performance
afterwards tanner hands andrew the
folder with the sheet music for the
second set for safekeeping
andrew places the folder on a chair as
he buys a soda from the vending machine
tanner returns and asks for the sheet
music
when andrew turns to retrieve it the
folder has been removed from the chair
they return backstage to inform fletcher
he tells them to get their drum sticks
and get on stage
tanner relies on the sheet music and
cannot play from memory
andrew steps in saying he has memorized
the song whiplash
the band returns to the stage for the
second set with andrew as core drummer
he plays flawlessly and schaefer
conservatory wins the competition
the following day at the studio tanner
is demoted as core drummer with andrew
taking his place
at a family dinner that evening andrew
mentions proudly that he is now a core
member of the studio band and that
fletcher's opinion matters a lot to him
after band practice fletcher discusses a
double time swing tempo with andrew
saying he will give another drummer he
met in the practice room a shot at it
andrew is surprised to see ryan connolly
arrive to try out for the position for
the upcoming competition
fletcher pits the two drummers against
each other dismissing andrew for playing
the wrong tempo
he tells connolly he is the new core
drummer
andrew follows fletcher into the office
and disagrees that connolly is a better
choice
fletcher tells him that if he wants the
part he must earn it
nicole meets andrew who tells her they
need to break off their relationship as
it will hinder his progress
she says he hardly has time for her
anyway and walks away
he goes back to practice on the song
caravan with a pitcher of iced water
beside him
when he fails to reach the correct tempo
he punches the drum in frustration
andrew plunges his bleeding hand into
the iced water and then continues
venting his frustration and anger as he
plays later when the band meets for
practice fledger asks them to listen to
the music of a past student who had
started at shaffer with a lot of hope
he says that he saw the drive and
potential in a student named sean casey
who persevered against the odds and was
eventually made first trumpet at lincoln
center
fletcher tearfully tells the students
that sean died in a car accident
yesterday
they rehearsed caravan but ryan connolly
struggles with the tempo
andrew is told to try and earn the part
also failing to please fletcher
tanner is recalled to try out and also
fails
connolly is told to get back on the
drums
fletcher tells them that they will have
to keep playing until one of them
succeeds
andrew is belittled and verbally abused
as he plays
fletcher continues to push the drummers
to their limits to regain their position
as core drummer
he insults their abilities continually
as they fail to play to tempo
fletcher throws a drum and kicks
furniture as he circles around andrew
relentlessly shouting at him to play
faster
andrew continues to play and rises above
the pain as his hands start to bleed
fletcher finally tells him he has earned
the part and to clean the blood off his
drum set
the other band musicians wait in the
corridor for hours finally returning to
continue the rehearsal
they are released from the exhausting
practice at 2 in the morning
andrew reads the sheet music as he
travels on the bus to the duneland jazz
competition
the bus has a flat tire on route and
there are no taxis available
he hires a car and in his rush he
forgets his drumsticks on the chair in
the office
andrew is late to join the practice and
an irate fletcher sarcastically thanks
him for fitting them into his busy
schedule
fletcher launches into another insulting
tirade telling him he lost the part
further enraging an already angry andrew
he tells fletcher he earned his place
fletcher snarls that the only reason he
is a core drummer is because he
misplaced tanner's folder and that the
position is lent to him not owned by him
connolly watches smugly telling andrew
to back off when he shouts that he is in
the studio band because he is the best
player
fletcher insults his father and
threatens andrew saying that they're on
stage in 11 minutes and andrew must be
seated with his drumsticks ready to play
he drives back to the car rental office
and retrieves the drumsticks calling to
say he is on his way back
as he feeds back his car is hit by a
truck
andrew is injured and bleeding as he
crawls from the wreckage telling a
concerned bystander that he is okay
he reaches into the car for his
drumsticks before he runs back to the
band practice
he finally walks on stage and takes his
seat at the drums
andrew summons his strength determined
to play through the pain
he perseveres until his injured hand
drops the drumstick onto the floor
as he reaches to pick it up the band
continues to play and fletcher
approaches him
he struggles but forces himself to
continue
as andrew collapses fletcher coldly
tells him he is done and apologizes to
the audience
andrew is enraged and finally snaps
he kicks the drum away before he runs
across the stage to attack fletcher
tanner and connolly drag andrew off the
stage and he continues to swear at
fletcher
andrew is expelled and his father files
an ethics complaint against schaefer
conservatory
the lawyer tells him that one of
fletcher's former students sean casey
hanged himself
fletcher had told the studio band that
sean had died in a car accident
shawn's depression and anxiety had
started during his time as fletcher
student his family wants to make sure
that fletcher is never allowed to bully
another student
the lawyer assures andrew that fletcher
would never know that he had testified
against him
andrew is so demoralized that he decides
to give up his childhood dreams of
becoming a famous drummer
he throws his cds and music sheets away
and dismantles his drum kit
he agrees to testify as an anonymous
witness and fletcher is fired
months later he goes into a jazz club
where fletcher is the special guest
musician on piano as andrew leaves the
club fletcher calls him and invites him
for a drink
fletcher tells him that he will be
conducting a professional band opening
in the upcoming jdc fest
he says that he wasn't at schaefer only
to conduct but also to push the students
beyond what was expected of them to
attain excellence
in fletcher's opinion there are no two
words in the english language more
harmful than good job to praise
mediocrity
andrew asks if there isn't a tipping
point where the next legendary musician
could be discouraged by a tyrannical
instructor
fletcher invites andrew to play in his
band at the jdc festival
he is using the schaefer studio band
playlist and needs a drummer familiar
with it
when andrew suggests ryan connolly
fletcher tells him connolly was just a
tool to push andrew to perform at his
best
tanner got discouraged and left the band
andrew accepts the invitation to play
he calls nicole and apologizes to her
before inviting her to the jvc festival
she declines as she is in a new
relationship at the festival fletcher
tells the band that this performance
could change their lives
if an influential person in the music
industry was impressed by their talent
they could go far
he says that on the other hand if anyone
makes a mistake they should consider
another career as the people in the
music industry never forget
on stage andrew checks his whiplash
music notes while nervously wiping his
sweaty palms on his trouser leg
fletcher approaches him and tells andrew
he knows it was him who testified
against him
he introduces the band to the audience
as some of the best musicians in new
york saying that they will start with a
new tune called upswinging
he turns to smirk at a shocked andrew
who has not been given the sheet music
for the song
the band members glare at andrew as he
tries and fails to play a song he is not
familiar with
fletcher approaches him and says maybe
you just don't have it
andrew is humiliated and leaves the
stage as fletcher smiles cruelly
his father is in the audience and walks
out to find andrew and console him
andrew decides to return to the stage to
play instead of giving up
fletcher turns around to see andrew
seated back at the drum kit
when he addresses the audience andrew
interrupts him by launching into the
song caravan
andrew cues the band and they start to
play
a very surprised and angry fletcher
conducts
fletcher watches andrew intently with a
grudging respect for his tenacity
at the end of the song the light stim in
fletcher is ready to take a bow
andrew continues to play a breathtaking
solo and fletcher asks him what he is
doing
he tells fletcher that he'll cue him in
his hands start to bleed and his sweat
drips onto the cymbals as he plays
andrew's father watches and awe at his
son's brilliant performance
fletcher approaches andrew as he finally
recognizes the enormity of his talent
he guides andrew as he increases the
tempo
fletcher looks andrew in the eye and
smiles acknowledging his magnificent
solo as he queues in the band for the
finale
thanks for watching if you've enjoyed
the video and want to see more please
consider subscribing and turning on the
notification bell it helps a lot
thanks and see you again very soon
[Music]
you